>> Shirley Wu: Let's move on to
the next one, which I think was either
a line chart or
a area chart of the genres over the years.
So let's do that together,
and so what that would be is.
So for this one, we're trying
to do the x axis is year, and
the y axis is it was popularity, right?
So popularity in this case,
should we just go with metascore again for
the popularity?
Okay,
>> Shirley Wu: Wait,
>> Shirley Wu: And then it's going to
be colored by different genres.
Is color, one of the things
I do want to ask you that
we need to take into
consideration is if you notice
genres.
>> Shirley Wu: Usually
there are three genres together.
How do you want to deal with that?
Do you want to enumerate all of
the genres, or do you only want to take
the first one, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: We just chose the first one.
>> Shirley Wu: Let's go with the easy one.
[LAUGH] That's great,
let's just go with the easy one.
So in that case what we want to do is
let's go through this together.
So each of the marks are?
>> Shirley Wu: Lines, thank you.
And then coding is that
the x axis will be,
>> Shirley Wu: Type is temporal,
the field is a year, and
there's no other things we need, right?
And then y is,
>> Shirley Wu: The type is quant and
the metascore is
the field.
>> Shirley Wu: Metascore,
and then with color we want
to say that type because
genre is categorical we
wanna say it's nominal.
And the field is the genre.
>> Shirley Wu: So
let's give that a try together.
the very first thing we have to do is
clean the data a little bit again.
So this one is, let's say year.
I'm really not that great with naming,
but let's say yearScoreGenre.
>> Shirley Wu: And this one we want to
get for each of the data,
let us do return.
So we decided we want years,
well so, I have a question for you.
Which is we have this string,
that's just the year.
And if we were to use this,
we would have to use type quantitative,
because it's not a date object.
Or we can use released,
and then tell it the,
and then tell it its temporal.
Should we try it released
with the temporal?
Yeah, and see what happens.
>> Shirley Wu: So
that was date is new Date(d.Released),
score is just d.Metascore
turned into an integer.
And genre we decided to just
take the very first genre.
But because it's currently in a string,
I need to split it by the commas and
a white space, and
then take the very first one.
So if we do that.
>> Shirley Wu: d.genre or is that split?
Cannot do split of undefined.
>> Shirley Wu: There are undefined genres.
Let's take a look at what that might be.
>> Shirley Wu: Actually I'll just do,
it will be if there are genres then
will split them and if there aren't,
let's just give it an empty string for
the sake of this exercise.
Okay, so this is the data processing, and
let's look at the data really quickly, so.
Wait, no, no, no, it's just genre,
there's no genres.
So it's just Genre.
>> Shirley Wu: Perfect,
so now let's try plugging this
in to vegalite.
>> Shirley Wu: And see what happens.
So again, we can do, and let me.
>> Shirley Wu: Let me pin this code.
Okay so let's try vegalite again.
>> Shirley Wu: And
again the data is the newly calculated
one which we call yearScoreGenre.
The mark is line, and
the encodings we have,
was it encoding or encodings?
Let me just see.
>> Shirley Wu: Just encoding, okay.
Encoding, and
we have three of them this time.
The x we wanted to be
the type is temporal.
>> Shirley Wu: And then the field is date.
That should be it.
Y we said the type is quantitative.
The field is the score.
And finally the color we
set the type is nominal,
and the field is genre.
>> Shirley Wu: And
then we need to put this into quotes.
>> Shirley Wu: Invalid
field type undefined?
>> Shirley Wu: We have
an undefined field type?
Can anyone see-
>> Speaker 2: Quantitative is misspelled.
>> Shirley Wu: Thank you so much.
[LAUGH] Quantitative, whoa.
>> Shirley Wu: That's
not what we were expecting.
Just for
to make a little bit easier to read width,
I'm gonna start to a little bit bigger,
let's say 800 and see what happens.
Or maybe just 600, so it fits,
and then let's bring it up.
Not quite what we were hoping for, is it?
[LAUGH]
>> Shirley Wu: And that's fine,
sometimes you're exploration
turns out really well and
sometimes it just doesn't quite give
you back what you were hoping for.
If we had a bit more time what we might
try to do is, actually let's try and
see if we an make this into an area chart.
That's also really interesting in
a really hard to read sort of way.
So yeah.
>> Speaker 2: It looks more like
generative art.
>> Shirley Wu: Actually,
yeah this is hard to read.
And this is actually a really
good example of like,
the reason why we're doing this is so
that we can quickly go through and
also check out different visualizations
that might be good or bad.
And now we can rule this out as like,
we probably shouldn't do
an area chart [LAUGH].
Or if we do an area chart or
a line chart or something similar,
we are going to have to be really
careful to make sure it's easy to read.
Because, yeah, right now this is like,
it's really hard to get
anything out of it.
But again, if we have a bit more time,
maybe it's that we can try a different,
we can try modifying
this a little bit more.
Maybe we only look at a certain
time range that we dig into,
or-
>> Speaker 2: Can you do a scatter plot?
>> Shirley Wu: Scatter plots,
>> Shirley Wu: I don't know if scatter
plot would be the right way for
this one, we can try.
Just cuz one temporal and
one is quantitative, and
I actually don't know what
vegalite would do with it.
But we can give it a try.
Look at that.
>> Shirley Wu: But
scatterplots are usually you try and
look for correlations with it and
then this case it's really hard.
Like it's really hard to see really any
correlation with it other than
you know there are movies.
[LAUGH] With scores and genres [LAUGH].
So we can either conclude
that there is more
work that should be done
here to massage it.
Or we can conclude that there's just
not anything interesting to show here.
And for the sake of today's workshop,
let's just conclude that maybe
this is one of those dead ends.
So, [LAUGH] but this is a really
great example of a dead end.
>> Speaker 2: It does seem like there's
less comedies as you move to the right.
>> Shirley Wu: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] And animations only
started to gain popularity in 2003.
I don't know.
>> Shirley Wu: Thank you Mark.
[LAUGH] For giving this a try.
>> Speaker 2: I'm really taking
a shot in the dark here.
>> Shirley Wu: I mean these are some of
the things that you decide
to really dig into.